## Functional Requirements

Clinician should be able to do the following;
- Log in to system and access the laboratory module.
- Open the lab order form in the lab module.
- Capture patient details at the facility using the system.
- Capture lab order details at the facility using the system. 
- Submit Lab order details to the SHR.
- Access the lab test results from PIMS.
- Receive pop up notification from PIMS indicating that new - results have been received.

Laboratory Technicians should be able to;
- Login to access the lab module in IPMS.
- Enter lab order details in to IPMS from facilities that do not have IPMS.
- Obtain lab order ID generated by IPMS.
- Enter results in to IPMS after processing the received specimen.
- Submit the lab test results to the SHR through IPMS.

The interoperability layer should be able to;

- To cache and store data from various interfacing systems in the shared health record (SHR).
- Synchronise and update data set in the interoperability layer with other systems such as the MPI.
- Ping IPMS for available lab test results and pull them to the SHR.
- Update SHR with results from IPMS and push the updated record to PIMS

The system should be able to;

- Send SMS notifications to patients that require urgent attention-(PIMS)
- Allow capturing of certain specific specimen-(PIMS).
- Ping SHR for available lab test results and avail them to the clinicians- (PIMS)
- Send lab test results to the SHR-(IPMS) 

### NON FUNCTIONAL REQUIREMENTS
- The systems should be able to recovered 1 hour from downtime
- The system should have 95% uptime
- Data should be shared/transmitted over a secure layer (Interoperability Layer)
- The system should be scalable 
